a hundred billion neurons connected by a
hundred thousand billion synapses the
human brain is the most complex machine
we know of and the most mysterious one
we face huge issues in neuroscience to
understand how the pieces of the brain
fit and work together we face huge
issues in medicine to understand how to
objectively diagnose and treat brain
diseases this is a big big challenge
it'll have an enormous impact on the
health of the agent
European researchers propose a radically
new approach to study the human mind
their idea is simple to simulate a
complete human brain in a supercomputer
we have a giant intellectual problem to
solve here as a scientist I mean it's
really the central project for brain
science and that could revolutionize
computing the way we do it today
[Music]
a human brain project brings together
hundreds of scientists from leading
European research institutions it is one
of the most ambitious neuroscience
projects in the world what we are
proposing is to establish a radically
new foundation to explore and understand
the brain its diseases and to use that
knowledge to build new computing
technologies the project is coordinated
by EPFL located in Lausanne Switzerland
the researchers will systematically
study neurons the building blocks of the
brain they will collect and consolidate
all the biological data produced by
scientists around the world they will
integrate this knowledge into a massive
simulation running on a supercomputer
the result will be the most accurate
model of the human brain ever produced
I'm really thrilled to be part of this
and to help neuroscience met a more
coordinated effort to understand the
brain and to exploit the brain to really
use what's in the brain in computational
principles and to derive new
technologies from an original group of
13 institutions the HBP now encompasses
more than 80 partners across Europe the
human cortex is organized into
specialized regions we need to
understand what these different regions
are doing some are specializing for
language some are specializing for
vision so we will create systematic maps
of the human brain trying to understand
each of these subsystems and trying to
understand what are the specific
parameters so that they can ultimately
be brought to simulation
brain diseases have become an immense
burden in the Western world in Europe
they cost more than heart diseases
cancer and diabetes all put together
scientists will work closely with
hospitals to find new treatment to
neurological disorders they will collect
medical data such as brain scans in
order to develop better ways to diagnose
diseases it involves trying to make
sense of the enormous amounts of data we
collect on all our patients and using
those data in order to define their
diseases better and to do that we need
first to be able to bring the data
together so we need data basing and for
that we're going to need really
high-powered computers to be able to
what we call data mine
we now have a blueprint to understand
the molecular architecture that defines
the development and organization of the
human brain but it also gives us the
fantastic opportunity to understand how
the DNA mutations that caused hundreds
of different brain diseases produce
those diseases
there'll be ways of testing potential
drugs where you won't need to use
animals where you'll be able to use
something that approaches the human and
where you'll have some information of
how good the treatments going to be to
correct the defect the simulation of a
complete human brain will require
supercomputers that are a thousand times
more powerful than today the power of
today's computers is by far not
sufficient to compute this complex
system of course we have to pool
resources in order to satisfy the huge
demands the project will stimulate the
development of new supercomputers by
understanding how cognition works it
will help to design radically new
devices called neuromorphic computers
they will combine the power of micro
electronics with the flexibility of
human intelligence if you want to solve
a new problem you renew software you
don't do that in your brain you learn
and you are able to learn to handle
completely different situation even
things which you have never seen before
these are systems that are directly
modeled after the brain is what we build
is physical models of brain circuits on
silicon substrates the human brain
project will create a realistic
simulation of the brain this new tool
will be used to understand how the mind
works to study brain diseases and invent
new electronics to achieve this goal
more than 80 European institutions have
already joined the project the
competence is the dista buted all over
Europe in supercomputing and in
neuroscience by putting so many
different people together and making
such a big community such a big project
we can do things we could never do with
any other skill smaller scale project
for Europe this is a kind of big science
project this I believe the 21st century
will be the century of the brain I think
the project is very visionary project
and it seems to me that the fields need
this kind of initiative really to move
forward and I see fantastic
opportunities in the future the
technology is at reach and the necessary
knowledge available it's like building a
giant telescope to peer into deep space
only that would be able to look deep
into the brain and ask questions that
are impossible experimentally and
theoretically
it's an infrastructure to be able to
build and simulate the human brain
objectively classify brain diseases and
build radically new computing devices we
have what's called and technology a
roadmap we know which technology will be
used at which point in time at the
project and the way we will scale up our
systems so that they reach the
complexity of the human brain the human
brain project will put Europe at the
forefront of neuroscience it will
deliver new strategies to fight brain
diseases and it will revolutionize
electronics but first of all it will
offer a revolutionary new tool to study
the most mysterious phenomenon of the
universe the human brain
[Music]